# Unlocking the Secrets Behind Adult Dating
#Yash Somaiya and Lynn Ahrens, STAT 471, 19 December 2021

In the modern dating world, combined with the rapid onset of technology, adults are now faced with both a plethora of decisions and a constant influx of information about potential matches. In this quest for love, with so many factors to consider, this can make an already daunting position more intimidating and overwhelming. In the following analyses, we seek to take data from over 8,000 speed dating pairings to form a predictive model for match rate based on selected human characteristics, preferences, goals, and reception to others. 

Our data is taken from an original experimental study conducted in Columbia University by Raymond Fisman, Sheena S. Iyengar, Emir Kamenica, and Itamar Simonson, where students of the graduate and professional schools attended speed dating events in the area between the years 2002 and 2004. Recorded are data for each pairing, ranging from field of study and hobbies to frequency of dates and ratings of their partners that round. Our explanatory variables span four core divisions: demographic information (e.g. race, gender), hobbies and activities (e.g. hiking, shopping), preferences, and external feedback (e.g. partner's ratings), all used in prediction of the final response variable, or the match percentage rate of an individual in the dating pool. 

Our data was subsequently split into a training set for model fitting and a test set for model assessment, and our data exploratory phase consists of determination of variation within the response variable/features, and initial insights into the covariation between features and a relationship between the features and response variable. In finalizing our predicted model, we built four different cross-validated models: ordinary least squares, ridge regression, LASSO regression, and a pruned decision tree. Of all of the regression models, and overall, the OLS model had the lowest test error.

The strongest predictor of match percentage was found to be attractiveness, exceeding the next predictor, gender, by a significant amount, and followed by sincerity, fun, shared interest ratings. Within the context of the speed dating experiment, this was supported by our intuition and best judgement given this is the most easily recognizable trait and can be widely interpreted for each participant. For our stakeholders at Bumble, we advise greater emphasis on recommendations by shared interests, verifying metrics for attraction by user, and continuing with its policy of women initiating conversation for more successful odds, given that women are found to be more selective by our model than men. It is out goal with this analysis to cultivate effortless, enjoyable, and healthy matches in today's dating climate. 
